This file is designed to keep track of various problem fixes and new
features being worked on for the current PLplot CVS MAIN HEAD version and
who is taking responsibility for following up on each item.

The items are divided into Essential and "Would be nice" (i.e., release
critical versus not) with each of those categories further classified into
minor or major effort required.

Essential, major effort required.

* The new Unix/Linux configuration scheme must be tested for as wide a
variety of Unix/Linux platforms as possible.  This is the responsibility of
everybody on the development team with access to different platforms.
(Several Linux environments, a limited Solaris environment, and a limited
OSF1 environment completed, but we need much more especially a Solaris
environment with tcl/tk)

Essential, minor effort required.

* sort out option implications for --disable-shared.  For example, we
cannot build dynamic drivers in this case, and this also kills python and
octave so sysloc.in should be adjusted accordingly.

* Check that make DESTDIR=/tmp/staging install works so that our package is
build-relocatable.  This facility is essential so that our rpm and deb
packages build correctly.

* Version reviewed.  There should be a clear distinction between PLplot
package version 5.2.0 ? and the version of the PLplot libraries 1.0.0 ?

* http://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=1785861 documents
the many minor memory leaks found by valgrind throughout the dynloader area.
Anybody with good understanding of that code section?  Joao is planning to
make an internal pllib_end function called from plend where overall memory
that is allocated at pllib_init is released again.

* Move to modern autoconf API.  There are lots of warnings now about the
deprecated functions that we use.

* plplot-config is currently not supported under the autotools approach. We
should bring this back (including targets for libplplotcxx, f77, and tcltk),
but to make it cross-platform we should put in a warning that the results
are meant to be used with plplot_libtool.  Alan

* Alan has some documentation backlog to clear.

* If x08.tcl (or any other multi-page example) is executed first, then the
first page is skipped.

"Would be nice", major effort required.

* Maurice's idea of plsopt and plsdopt so that our API doesn't keep
proliferating.  Example, instead of plenv0 do:
plsopt("plenv_advance", "0");
plenv(...)

* -the tk drivers ignore plconfig.tcl if it is in the user directory ~/tcl
and a tclIndex file is generated. "auto_path" is correctly initialized to
~/tcl, pwd/tcl, etc, but plconfig is not executed.  Reported by Joao.  Status?

* Sort out state problems in repository.  These make every merge of two
different branchs or the -D (date) option on cvs commands problematic since
deleted files with the wrong state information are brought back like zombies
rising from the grave.....;-) Note that the cvs permissions problems
detailed below should also be fixed at the same time.  Maurice.

* Completely remove configure.in and COPYING from the top directory of the
cvs repository.  (The cf/configure.in file is fine.) It's a long story, but
topdir configure.in is no longer used by PLplot (configure.ac is used
instead), and configure.in has a real log mess so AWI want to just get rid
of it entirely.  COPYING is another long story, but AWI needs to reuse that
name so he can provide a proper reference to our LGPL licensing.

* Make our documentation buildable on RedHat.  Alan

* Maurice plans to finish his changes to implement handling strings as
strings in the metafile format.

* Geoffrey plans to at least evaluate remaining fidelity problems caused
by our 16-bit integer approach.

* Make plframe widget work for python/Tkinter front end.

* Parallelogram problem for rotation which is not multiple of 90 deg. This
is on the major list because Maurice doesn't think it will be simple to sort
this out. Once this problem is sorted out, it should be possible to deal
with the remaining rotation problems for the font handling, but those issues
should not be tackled until the parallelogram core problem is straightened
out.

* There is still one issue holding back Olof et al from moving to our
supported python interface for their pyqt GUI work. They require two output
devices (one for the GUI and one to store results more permanently).  This
is possible with -dev tk.  If a simple solution for the pyqt GUI following
what is done for the plframe widget for -dev tk is possible, then this item
should be reclassified to "Would be nice", minor effort.

* Uniform 3D API for handling z, x, y, and exclusion.  The shaded and
contour plots do this fairly well (although not uniformly), but the plot3d,
plmesh, and plsurf3d API's are much too simplistic for general work.  For
example, they don't handle non-rectangular x,y regions at all.

"Would be nice", minor effort required.

* Error messages for when the extended search fails in tclAPI.c.  This is
required when running in tcl-only mode with no plframe or stack trace.

* As part of extended search try the install location.  We know exactly
where that is relative to our font data, and we know exactly where the font
data are installed so we know the absolute path to our tcl install location.
Then, the only way such an extended search would fail is if the packagers
messed with our tcl install location.

* Better support for "make check" so that uninstalled versions can check for
drivers, fonts, and tcl support scripts in their uninstalled positions.

* Permissions problem with generated plplot-config and plplot-test.sh in
plplot/test.  Using new autoconf API allows you to set permissions of results
so this will automatically get sorted out when we move to a modern autoconf
API.  Also, this issue only affect "make check" environment since the
installed versions should have the correct permissions using the autotools
approach.

* bindings/tk/plcolor.tcl has execute permissions that should be removed.
examples/tcl/stats.log should be made world-readable.  Both these cvs 
permission problems need access to the CVS repository to fix and should be
done at the same time as the CVS state changes mentioned above.  However,
under autotools you can change the permissions at will in the installed
product so this issue only affects "make check" for uninstalled testing.

* debian subdirectory made part of HEAD so can build debs directly
from HEAD.  Careful here! Any further cvs merges are going to have to
wait getting the state problems in our cvs repository sorted out.

* fortran, and C++ examples made consistent with the C, tcl, Java, python,
and octave examples as a test that the various interfaces to PLplot produce
the same results.  Those latter interface examples currently need some
maintenance as well due to the C example changes done recently by Joao.

* fortran API used to be our most complete non-C interface, but now it has
fallen behind python and java (and would also fall behind perl if/when that
interface becomes based on swig).  We need a volunteer (or volunteers) to
make sure all our additions/changes to the common API over the last few
years are implemented in fortran. 

* Implement plgetopt for both fortran and c++ interfaces.  Probably some
cross-platform issues (especially with fortran) so have it act reasonably
when, e.g., getarg is not available on some fortran platforms.

* PLplot documentation of python, java, etc., interfaces.
