Release announcements for PLplot in DocBook-XML format
------------------------------------------------------

This directory contains the source files in DocBook-XML format for the
PLplot release announcements starting at version > 5.2.1.  It contains also
the stylesheets and the Makefile for building the output files.

XHTML, PDF, and text versions can be obtained from XML source.  The
CMake-based build system provides MakeFile rules to build the *.xhtml and
*.txt forms of our release announcements from the *.xml files which are the
DocBook-XML source.  The generated Makefile rules were developed on Debian
and have not been tested for portability although they should work on other
Linux distros if you have the right packages installed.

The programs and respective (Debian) packages needed are:

    xmlto     xmlto
    lynx      lynx-cur
    onsgmls   opensp

 -- Rafael Laboissiere <rlaboiss@users.sf.net>, Fri Oct 24 10:05:00 CEST 2003

The idea of generating our release announcements from DocBook was abandoned
after 5.3.1 when Rafael stepped down as release manager, but I feel it is
worthwhile to reinstate this good idea again.  Therefore, I have
reimplemented all validation and build rules using our CMake-based build
system rather than the old special Makefile that Rafael used.

The current list of announcement versions is 5.3.0 and 5.3.1.  To add
another one (say for 5.9.1),

* cd to www/announce, and add 5.9.1 to the list of versions in
CMakeLists.txt.

* copy the last announcement to the current one:
cp announce-plplot-5.3.1.xml announce-plplot-5.9.1.xml

* edit that current version appropriately:

* validate all source files (including the present one):
make validate_announcements

* and generate all announcements (including the present one):
make generate_announcements

Once satisfied with the current announcement, add the current announcement
source (in this case announce-plplot-5.9.1.xml) to our git repository.

Actually installing the complete list of static and generated announcements
on our website is handled by www/CMakeLists.txt.

-- Alan W. Irwin 2008-10-24
