

Welcome, and thanks for downloading CGM Draw, a package for creating
CGM files from a "C" program.  If you are reading this then you probably
have already unpacked the distribution.  You can make it by typing 
"make all"  this will make libcd.a  the cd library, as well as several
example programs (cdsimple, cdtest, color16, cdexpert, cdmulti, cdtext.)
Please read over the documentation in cd.html before using the package.

Every effort has been made to ensure that the generated cgm files
conform to the standard, however, if you do not use the library
properly, you could generate invalid metafiles that no one is able
to read, so be careful.

Documentation for cd is included with the package, and is available from
http://speckle.ncsl.nist.gov/~lorax/cgm/cd.html  
General information about CGM is available many places on the web, including 
http://speckle.ncsl.nist.gov/~lsr/cgm.htm
This distribution may be retrieved via ftp from
zing.ncsl.nist.gov in the directory "cgm"  it will have the
name cd followed by the version number.

I have tested CGM Draw on SunOs4, Solaris2, Ultrix, Linux, and IRIX.
I have heard from other people it works under OpenVMS and Dos. It 
should compile and run on just about any Unix system, and probably 
other systems as well.

I have switched jobs (within NIST) so there will be no further enhancements
of this package.  If any bugs come up, I will try to fix them.

Copyright:

CGM Draw software produced by NIST, an agency of the U.S. government, 
is by statute not subject to copyright in the United States. 
Recipients of this software assume all responsibilities associated with 
its operation, modification and maintenance.  Please note however,
that some of the code in this package is from gd, which is copyright.
gd's copyright is as follows:
gd 1.2 is copyright 1994, 1995, Quest Protein Database Center,
Cold Spring Harbor Labs. Permission granted to copy and distribute
this work provided that this notice remains intact. Credit
for the library must be given to the Quest Protein Database Center,
Cold Spring Harbor Labs, in all derived works. This does not
affect your ownership of the derived work itself, and the intent
is to assure proper credit for Quest, not to interfere with your
use of gd. If you have questions, ask. ("Derived works"
includes all programs that utilize the library. Credit must
be given in user-visible documentation.)


If you have any questions or comments, please send me e-mail, lorax@nist.gov

Thanks for trying it out. 
  Edward Johnson


