
These notes are from the stand-alone version of the ocaml bindings and 
are retained only for interest.

This is an interface to PLplot (http://plplot.sourceforge.net/) for the
Objective Caml language.

* REQUIREMENTS
- PLplot which matches the version of ocaml-plplot (5.8.0 with 5.8.0, etc)
- OCaml 3.09.x or 3.10.x for ocaml-plplot 5.8.0 or 5.9.0
- OCaml 3.10.x for later versions
  - ocamlbuild is used to compile ocaml-plplot versions newer than 5.9.0.
    ocamlbuild is only included in OCaml 3.10.0 and later.  No other 3.10.x
    specific OCaml functionality is used in ocaml-plplot at this time.
- camlidl
- findlib
- GNU make

* INSTALLATION
For 5.8.0 and 5.9.0:
Modify INCDIRS and LIBDIRS in the Makefile to point to your PLplot installation
$ make            (generates bytecode and native libs, plus a toplevel)
$ make libinstall (to install the library using findlib)

For later versions:
Make sure pkg-config can see you PLplot installation and that both ocamlfind
and ocamlbuild are in your $PATH.  Then:
$ make            (builds both bytecode and native libs)
$ make install    (may have to be run as sudo or root)

* NOTES
ocaml-plplot has been tested on OCaml 3.09.x and 3.10.x, under 32bit and 64bit
Linux (Fedora, Debian and CentOS).  It should work on other versions of OCaml,
but these are not tested.  Any questions or feedback regarding function or lack
of function on Linux or other platforms are welcome.

This wrapper/interface is fairly complete at this point.  Almost all of the
plotting and support routines are wrapped and functioning.  For examples, see
the examples/ directory for a selection of examples ported directly from the
official C PLplot examples.

Almost all of the function names are the same as in the PLplot C API.  Function
parameters are largely the same, with the exception that most arguments
indicating array lengths are deduced automatically by the camlidl generated
interface (see the "redacted form" of the commands in the PLplot manual).

The best references are the included examples and the PLplot web page shown at
the top of this README file.  The documentation there for the C API holds for
the most part here as well.  See also the ocaml-plplot Google Code site for
some OCaml-specific information.  http://ocaml-plplot.googlecode.com/

Hezekiah M. Carty
hcarty@atmos.umd.edu
